README.md, before:

# HBase+Hive for RDF

An implementation of Hive over HBase to store and query RDF

### Files
* src/DataSetProcessor.java - MapReduce program parses the dataset file and gets the unique subjects.
* src/Transformer.java - Assists in parsing RDF triples.
* src/CreateHBaseTable.java - Creates the HBase table and specifies HBase parameters.
* src/MRLoad.java - MapReduce program that loads data into the HBase table.

## How-To Guide to Setting Up the Experiment
### Table of Contents
1. Section 1: Cluster Setup (Amazon EC2/EMR)
2. Section 2: Loading Data into HBase

### Section 1: Cluster Setup (Amazon EC2/EMR)

1. Navigate to ‘Your Elastic MapReduce Job Flows’.
2. Click ‘Create New Job Flow’.
3. Make sure ‘Run your own application’ is checked.
4. In the ‘Choose Job Type’, select ‘HBase’.
5. Click ‘Continue’.
6. Under ‘Install Additional Packages’, check the ‘Hive’ box.
7. Click ‘Continue’.
8. All instance types should be ‘Large (m1.large)’ by default.
9. Under ‘Core Instance Group’, enter the number of slave nodes for the cluster (1, 2, 4, 8, or 16 used in this experiment).
10.	‘Task Instance Group’ should be zero.
11.	Click ‘Continue’.
12.	Select your EC2 key pair and leave all other options to default.
13.	Click ‘Continue’.
14.	Check the box ‘Configure your Bootstrap Actions’.
15. Under ‘Action Type’ select ‘Custom Action’.
16. For the ‘Amazon S3 Location’ enter: `s3://us-east-1.elasticmapreduce/bootstrap-actions/configure-hbase`.
17. For ‘Optional Arguments’ enter: `-s hbase.hregion.max.filesize=10737418240`.
18. Click ‘Continue’.
19. Review your settings and click ‘Create Job Flow’.
20. The cluster will take 3-5 minutes to fully initialize. 

### Section 2: Loading Data into HBase
1: Move the dataset file to a location on HDFS.

2: Create a list of all unique subjects that appear in the dataset. Depending on the dataset you are running (BSBM or DBPedia), you may have to recreate the KeyProcessor.jar file.

```
hadoop jar KeyProcessor.jar <INPUT_DATASET_FILE> <OUTPUT_FOLDER>
hadoop jar KeyProcessor.jar /data/bsbm_10M.nt /user/hadoop/bsbm-keys
```

3: Determine the keys that will be used to divide the data evenly among the cluster.
```
hadoop jar hadoop-core-1.0.4.jar org.apache.hadoop.mapreduce.lib.partition.InputSampler -r <CLUSTER_SIZE> -inFormat org.apache.hadoop.mapreduce.lib.input.SequenceFileInputFormat -keyClass org.apache.hadoop.io.Text -splitRandom <PROBABILITY> <NUMBER_OF_SAMPLES> <NUMBER_OF_SPLITS_EXAMINED> <PATH_TO_KEYS_ON_HDFS> <OUTPUT_LOCATION>
hadoop jar hadoop-core-1.0.4.jar org.apache.hadoop.mapreduce.lib.partition.InputSampler -r 16 -inFormat org.apache.hadoop.mapreduce.lib.input.SequenceFileInputFormat -keyClass org.apache.hadoop.io.Text -splitRandom 0.1 2000000 200 /dbp-keys /dbp-keyresult
```

4: Look at the output from the InputSampler. Take these keys and insert them into the CreateHBaseTable.java file. Generate the jar file.

5: Create the HBase table by executing the CreateHBaseTable java/jar file.

6: Create the HBase StoreFiles.
```
hadoop jar MRLoad.jar <TABLE_NAME> <ZOOKEEPER_QUORUM> <DATASET_FILE> <OUTPUT_DIRECTORY_FOR_STOREFILES>
hadoop jar MRLoad.jar rdf1 ec2-23-20-000-00.compute-1.amazonaws.com /MRLoad/input/dataset.nt /MRLoad/output
```

7: Load the StoreFiles into HBase.
```
hbase org.apache.hadoop.hbase.mapreduce.LoadIncrementalHFiles <PATH_TO_STOREFILES> <TABLE_NAME>
hbase org.apache.hadoop.hbase.mapreduce.LoadIncrementalHFiles hdfs:///MRLoad/output rdf1
```
	
8: The dataset has now been loaded into HBase.

Commit message:

Updated AWS setup guide to their new interface

README.md, after:

# HBase+Hive for RDF

An implementation of Hive over HBase to store and query RDF

### Files
* src/DataSetProcessor.java - MapReduce program parses the dataset file and gets the unique subjects.
* src/Transformer.java - Assists in parsing RDF triples.
* src/CreateHBaseTable.java - Creates the HBase table and specifies HBase parameters.
* src/MRLoad.java - MapReduce program that loads data into the HBase table.

## How-To Guide to Setting Up the Experiment
### Table of Contents
1. Section 1: Cluster Setup (Amazon EC2/EMR)
2. Section 2: Loading Data into HBase

### Section 1: Cluster Setup (Amazon EC2/EMR)

This guide was created using the AWS Management Console interface in December 2013.

1. Navigate to the AWS Management Console and go to the *Elastic MapReduce* service.
2. Click *Create Cluster*.
3. Under *Software Configuration*, select the appropriate version of Hadoop.
4. If HBase is not listed under *Applications to be installed*, add it and ignore the backup steps.
5. If Hive is not listed under *Applications to be installed*, add it and select the appropriate Hive version.
6. All instance types should be Large (m1.large) by default since we are running HBase.
7. Under *Hardware Configuration*, in the *Core* instance type, enter the number of slave nodes for the cluster (1, 2, 4, 8, or 16 used in this experiment).
8. *Task Instance Group* should be zero.
9. Select your EC2 key pair and leave all other options to default.
10. Under *Bootstrap Actions*, add a new, *Custom action*.
11. For the *S3 Location* enter:
`s3://us-east-1.elasticmapreduce/bootstrap-actions/configure-hbase`.
12. For ‘Optional Arguments’ enter:
`-s hbase.hregion.max.filesize=10737418240`.
13. Add the bootstrap action.
14. Review your settings and click *Create Cluster*.
15. The cluster will take 3-5 minutes to fully initialize.

### Section 2: Loading Data into HBase
1: Move the dataset file to a location on HDFS.

2: Create a list of all unique subjects that appear in the dataset. Depending on the dataset you are running (BSBM or DBPedia), you may have to recreate the KeyProcessor.jar file.

```
hadoop jar KeyProcessor.jar <INPUT_DATASET_FILE> <OUTPUT_FOLDER>
hadoop jar KeyProcessor.jar /data/bsbm_10M.nt /user/hadoop/bsbm-keys
```

3: Determine the keys that will be used to divide the data evenly among the cluster.
```
hadoop jar hadoop-core-1.0.4.jar org.apache.hadoop.mapreduce.lib.partition.InputSampler -r <CLUSTER_SIZE> -inFormat org.apache.hadoop.mapreduce.lib.input.SequenceFileInputFormat -keyClass org.apache.hadoop.io.Text -splitRandom <PROBABILITY> <NUMBER_OF_SAMPLES> <NUMBER_OF_SPLITS_EXAMINED> <PATH_TO_KEYS_ON_HDFS> <OUTPUT_LOCATION>
hadoop jar hadoop-core-1.0.4.jar org.apache.hadoop.mapreduce.lib.partition.InputSampler -r 16 -inFormat org.apache.hadoop.mapreduce.lib.input.SequenceFileInputFormat -keyClass org.apache.hadoop.io.Text -splitRandom 0.1 2000000 200 /dbp-keys /dbp-keyresult
```

4: Look at the output from the InputSampler. Take these keys and insert them into the CreateHBaseTable.java file. Generate the jar file.

5: Create the HBase table by executing the CreateHBaseTable java/jar file.

6: Create the HBase StoreFiles.
```
hadoop jar MRLoad.jar <TABLE_NAME> <ZOOKEEPER_QUORUM> <DATASET_FILE> <OUTPUT_DIRECTORY_FOR_STOREFILES>
hadoop jar MRLoad.jar rdf1 ec2-23-20-000-00.compute-1.amazonaws.com /MRLoad/input/dataset.nt /MRLoad/output
```

7: Load the StoreFiles into HBase.
```
hbase org.apache.hadoop.hbase.mapreduce.LoadIncrementalHFiles <PATH_TO_STOREFILES> <TABLE_NAME>
hbase org.apache.hadoop.hbase.mapreduce.LoadIncrementalHFiles hdfs:///MRLoad/output rdf1
```
	
8: The dataset has now been loaded into HBase.
